---
layout: post
title: Dr. Oz
date: 2015-04-23 20:51
author: chlsmith
comments: true
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
So the doctors at Columbia got together and sent a big letter trying to get the school to dump Dr. Oz from the staff because he talked about stuff on TV that wasn't scientifically proven.   It was enough that Dr. Oz himself responding on TV and in an opinion piece for Time magazine.

Having seen his show several times, I have to say that he comes across as a bit of a huckster.   I think there are basically 3 shows:

1.  Miracle weight-loss cures.

2.  Things too gross to talk about with your doctor.

3.  What could be going on "down there"?

It's too bad for him, but the reality is that after a few years of shows, there's not much he can really talk about that's new or interesting to most people anymore.   His target audience is definitely women, so the three topics above go over really well for him.   Men like to lose weight, but there's nothing too gross for us to talk about and our "down there" does get too many things to freak out about.

I have read his You the Owner's Manual book and he has a couple others.   That book is actually full of really good advice, though it's written about as well as this crap I'm spewing right now.   The idea is to eat moderately, exercise a bit every day, and so some morning stretching (basically a couple of sun salutations a day).   Nothing outrageous or weird....just a simple way to be healthy.

Are some of the claims made on his show ridiculous?   Of course.   Would I ever go see Dr. Oz for a surgery?   Probably not.   At the same time, he's a heart surgeon at one of the most prestigious places in the country, so he's certainly better than 90% of the others around.   Maybe I would.   I'll just have to remember to eat my non-GMO, organic pomegranate seed, sauerkraut and kale smoothie that morning.
